NMS-14210: Add documentation for SELinux as a requirement to run OpenNMS (#5502)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/deployment/pages/core/getting-started.adoc

* Internet access to download the installation packages.
* A working DNS server, and a localhost and server name that resolve properly.
* A system user with administrative permissions (`sudo`) to perform installation.

> * SELinux policy permits binding to the ICMP service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SELinux policy permitting binding to the ICMP service
* ```

> * A SELinux policy permitting binding to the ICMP service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A SELinux policy which permits binding to the ICMP service.
```

> * A SELinux policy that permits binding to the ICMP service.
> (If you are using an operating system that includes SELinux.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A SELinux policy that permits binding to the ICMP service (if you are using an operating system that includes SELinux).
```

Note that failure to do so may generate an ICMP permission issue when starting OpenNMS.

> (See https://opennms.discourse.group/t/h29-wont-start-with-permission-error-to-open-icmp-socket/2387/1[H29+ won't start with permission error to open ICMP socket] on Discourse.)

Reviewer: Is the content of that Discourse article something that should be copied into the docs to show users how to identify SELinux conflicts?

Author: That's a good idea. We could create a separate topic just under the requirements section to do that. Only issue would be maintaining it in two places, if there are ever any updates to the Discourse article.

Reviewer: The discourse article could be updated to say "this info has been added to the docs" to direct people here for any other future updates

Author: It looks like we should use the "considerations with SELinux" section of the Discourse article and put it here. The rest is more describing the problem that they would see after installation and startup. Could create a troubleshooting section and that info to it.

Author: Have added that information. Too much? Too little?

> Note that failure to do so may generate an ICMP permission issue when starting OpenNMS.
> (See https://opennms.discourse.group/t/h29-wont-start-with-permission-error-to-open-icmp-socket/2387/1[H29+ won't start with permission error to open ICMP socket] on Discourse.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that failure to include the appropriate SELinux policy may generate an ICMP permission error when starting OpenNMS (see https://opennms.discourse.group/t/h29-wont-start-with-permission-error-to-open-icmp-socket/2387/1[H29+ won't start with permission error to open ICMP socket] on Discourse).
```

* Internet access to download the installation packages.
* A working DNS server, and a localhost and server name that resolve properly.
* A system user with administrative permissions (`sudo`) to perform installation.

> * A SELinux policy that permits binding to the ICMP service.

Reviewer: It's possible (though not a good security practice) to disable SELinux.   There also are some operating systems that do not include SELinux and don't require these steps done.
```suggestion
* A SELinux policy that permits binding to the ICMP service.
(If you are using an operating system that includes SELinux)
```

include::../time-sync.adoc[]

[[selinux-icmp]]
=== SELinux and ICMP permissions

> As noted in the requirements above, you must have SELinux to run {page-component-title}, as servers that have a SELinux policy configured will deny permission for {page-component-title} to bind to the ICMP service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have SELinux enabled on your {page-component-title} server, there must be a policy configured to allow {page-component-title} to bind to the ICMP service.
```

To verify that you have SELinux running and enabled, use the `sestatus` command.

> You should see the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If enabled, you should see the following:
```

[source, console]
----
SELinux status:                 enabled
SELinuxfs mount:                /sys/fs/selinux
SELinux root directory:         /etc/selinux
Loaded policy name:             targeted
Current mode:                   enforcing
Mode from config file:          enforcing
Policy MLS status:              enabled
Policy deny_unknown status:     allowed
Memory protection checking:     actual (secure)
Max kernel policy version:      33
----

> Use `audit2allow -a` to verify if {page-component-title} violates SELinux policies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `audit2allow -a` to verify if {page-component-title} violates SELinux policies.
```

> If the command is missing, run the `dnf install policycoreutils-devel` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

NOTE: If the `audit2allow` command is missing, run `dnf install policycoreutils-devel` to install package.
```

include::../time-sync.adoc[]

[[selinux-icmp]]
=== SELinux and ICMP permissions

If you have SELinux enabled on your {page-component-title} server, there must be a policy configured to allow {page-component-title} to bind to the ICMP service.

> To verify that you have SELinux running and enabled, use the `sestatus` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To verify that you have SELinux running and enabled, use the `sestatus` console command.
```

Author: I'd rather not specify all the types of commands, as we would have to update all the docs, and that's not a priority. Also, if you hover over the code sample in the docs, you see the type of command.

If enabled, you should see the following:

[source, console]
----
SELinux status:                 enabled
SELinuxfs mount:                /sys/fs/selinux
SELinux root directory:         /etc/selinux
Loaded policy name:             targeted
Current mode:                   enforcing
Mode from config file:          enforcing
Policy MLS status:              enabled
Policy deny_unknown status:     allowed
Memory protection checking:     actual (secure)
Max kernel policy version:      33
----

Use `audit2allow -a` to verify if {page-component-title} violates SELinux policies.

NOTE: If the `audit2allow` command is missing, run `dnf install policycoreutils-devel` to install package.

Look for entries preventing bind ICMP sockets to bind:

[source, console]
----
#============= unconfined_service_t ==============
allow unconfined_service_t node_t:icmp_socket node_bind;

============= unconfined_service_t ==============
allow unconfined_service_t port_t:icmp_socket name_bind;
----

> Create a type enforcement file like this: `JniPing.te`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a type enforcement file (for example, `JniPing.te`):
```

[source, console]
----
module JniPing 1.0;

require {
        type unconfined_service_t;
        type node_t;
        type port_t;
        class icmp_socket { name_bind node_bind };
}

#============= unconfined_service_t ==============
allow unconfined_service_t node_t:icmp_socket node_bind;
allow unconfined_service_t port_t:icmp_socket name_bind;
----

Create a SElinux module and compile it:

[source, console]
----
checkmodule -M -m -o JniPing.mod JniPing.te
semodule_package -o JniPing.pp -m JniPing.mod
----

Install the SELinux package and enforce it:

[source, console]
----
semodule -i JniPing.pp
getenforce
----

> You can verify the package with `semodule --list-modules | grep JniPing`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can verify the package with the following console command: `semodule --list-modules | grep JniPing`.
```
